what is that is parody superheroes
episode of that creative life I am here
with Chase Jarvis don't know who you are
I've been an artist my whole life
photographer and a director and I guess
we're all a bunch of - so I'm an author
a filmmaker hustler a youtuber many of
those things and most recently an
entrepreneur which I feel like those
things used to be separate and now they
are together so I would also consider
myself an entrepreneur started a couple
companies most recently creativeLIVE
which is the world's largest
live-streaming education company and
it's focused specifically on creativity
photo video design music and audio craft
maker movements and how to make a living
in a life doing all those things so it's
like it's for you and so at the heart
you know you're a photographer that was
like your thing is still here but so
what would you say is because right now
I wanna start
it's amazing pictures everyone has maybe
a DSLR how does someone stand out and
photography and 2016 I think it's it's a
much simpler answer than people want and
so that's part of the challenge behind
like when you're holding and like I'm
gonna take some valuable insights from
Chase right now and apply it it's
actually it's at the risk of being too
simple it is this you have lived a life
that nobody else has lived and that goes
for you or you or you and the goal is
putting you into your pictures so we can
all take a picture of the Grand Canyon
but what have you done
lived been through seen not seen that
you could perhaps put into that picture
such that it has a unique perspective
and when you say oh it's impossible
there's trillions of photographs that
are taken every year the reality is that
if you do that enough that's what people
call personal style and that's the
number one question I get is how do you
develop a personal style and the reality
is that you have to take so many
pictures that you start to know what you
think as you're taking the picture and
then you are able to put that into the
image so the reality is that there the
answer is there for our in here like
what do I want to say rather than what
is that thing over there now it's a
little bit confusing if you're taking a
portrait of somebody because that's very
much about them but then the answer
becomes well what can you do that's
different not just better because
photography is not about technical skill
I mean you have to have some some basic
acumen around being able to get the
settings right and whatnot but it's it's
after you have the fundamentals of the
technical crap I was just hanging out
with Brandon Stanton who's humans in New
York literally came straight from
Brandon to here and we just spent a long
time talking over lunch about how he
doesn't consider himself a master
photographer he's a master storyteller
he's a proficient photographer but
there's so much of his that's what he
did is he brought his interview skills
and curiosity around people into
photography and now you can see that
he's created something
it's clearly different there was nothing
like it before him and now there's all
kinds of copycats and whatnot but he
started a thing because he was trying to
do something that was different
not just incrementally better so once
you have like fundamental mastery of
your craft which is essential
you can't take shitty pictures goofy
pictures yeah but you it's really about
being different and what can you put
into the picture that other people could
take you for example connecting the
tables the tables have turned so one of
the things I love that you do is you
show it's almost a very Bloggie style on
your snapchat because so much of what
you do is creating so almost every every
time I check into your snap feed you're
creating and I think anyone who would
watch you from the outsider looked at
your just your final product would say
oh shoot videos but when you follow you
on snapchat or the thing that you're
doing is you're always working ideally
you do some work that you love so it
doesn't feel like working but that's a
thing that I think most people don't
understand and how much work actually
goes into it and how much of you
personally your friends you're like all
of the stuff that you're making it
reflects a very personal aspect of you
and now I've only really learned that
through following you very closely and
snapchat well first of all I think
that's the power of photography relative
to video you know video has that extra
axis of time you have the you know the
trans transmission of time and in a
still photograph the goal is very
similar to a moving picture except how
do you get that whole story in just one
frame the way I look at it first and
foremost is not just tell any story but
tell a story that you actually intend so
you can take a picture and
intend for there to be a story and one
can just be in there yeah that's not a
mastery of your craft that's sort of
luck and if you point your pictures of
your camera at enough things and just
take a lot of pictures there might be
embedded stories in there I think Ira
Glass talks about the creative gap which
is the distance between what you can see
in your mind and what you can actually
make and as a beginner that gap is
really wide and you're like oh I see
this perfect it's gonna be beautiful and
then you take a look at the back camera
yet damn I can't quite get there yeah I
missed and then over time and as you
master your craft it gets to ideally
zero so that every time when you see
something in your mind that's the thing
that that comes out of your camera or
out of post-production or whatever but
in a photograph so first and foremost is
intention like I try I mean I'm always
happy if I get a happy accident which is
just a great photograph that you weren't
trying for but I would always actually
intend to tell a story and then I would
compose the picture in such a way that
that the story that I want to tell it
comes through so first and foremost I'm
just gonna give you there's two basic
things one is stopping power like if
you're walking by and there's ten
pictures will someone walk up to that
picture so what is the visual interest
that's going to capture someone's mind
and then second of all what are the
elements of the story so you have the
same thing in in filmmaking you have
like the protagonist the conflict some
sort of resolution so what in the
picture can stand for those things so
where is there and it's not just
conflict where is there tension where
you know who's the subject what is the
subject of the picture and then where is
the resolution and that's one of the
reasons that we like Pat we like
pictures of paths so much in roads
because especially if there's a
character on that road like a runner on
a long dusty trail that's it that makes
a ton of sense right because here you
have the hero of the image the the
challenge is the distance that they have
to go to get there where they going and
then you can actually see the direction
that they're headed off to so you feel
very complete I actually like to leave
the loop not quite closed so a perfect
story classically is you have the full
loop I like to leave a little bit open
so you're like I
wonder what's on the other side of the
hill or I wonder yeah a little bit of
tension and there you go there you go
it's like a chisel hammer we're just
making these things especially when it's
talking about bigger picture ideas and
wanting to get at some point whether
it's taking that perfect picture or that
video series master or whatever you want
to do in life something that I found
helpful is just it's kind of like
speaking it into motion tell all your
friends tell your family have that
accountability I'm gonna do this and
then just go do it what she said yeah
can I tell another quick story about
Manon cuz we were just together someone
asked the question like what do you do
when you get creatively blocked and he
really didn't have like an answer his
answer was so rude brutally simple it
was like I don't actually get blocked
because I'm so focused on doing the work
and if you have discipline you set a
schedule for yourself and you just go to
work making not everything that you make
every day is gonna be great but you you
literally don't allow yourself to get
blocked because there's this practice
there's this underlying practice of just
putting stuff out and I think you're a
stunning example of just making stuff
every day but that structure does add
that tension and adds that just like I
got I got a post another video because I
committed to the road and if it's ten
people that are subscribed to your
channel
it's that accountability in that
structure that's kind of you I think
that's a fantastic thing and most people
I used to think that the schedule is
there to keep me down so I didn't want
to be a part of a schedule and then as
soon as you you impose that on yourself
you realize that that is a great example
of a constraint and it's actually
constraints that create creativity
creativity is not just sort of walking
around so you interview I do and you
just wrapped up something really cool
with creative life
tell me a little bit about the 30 days I
spent about 45 days myself and a small
dedicated super hard-working crew and
sat down with my friends peers icons and
creativity and business and sat with it
with them for an hour to two hours and
released a series so it's not just a I
mean you can consume each video
independently of the other but it's also
at creative live.com / genius you can
just press one button and then get all
30 of these interviews going one in your
inbox every day for 30 days and it is
it's one of my favorite things I've ever
created it's you know Richard Branson
Mark Cuban Gary Vee we just talked about
Arianna Huffington bring a brown jared
leto
just I'll give you a thread that is
through basically every single person's
there my experience of every single
person and that is that it didn't happen
overnight for anybody I think overnight
success is a total myth even the people
who you think it happened
I'll take McLemore who's also a friend
he was making music in his parents
basement for ten years before you'd ever
heard of him
and I think people like oh my god
overnight success this guy has you know
15 X platinum I'm like what you really
find out if you look even just one inch
below the surface is that there is this
you always say the struggle is real that
is an absolute piece of I don't think
it's you know however you define success
whether it's just recognition or being
able to live the life whatever but a
hundred percent of the people have had
that experience where they toiled for
what seemed like an eternity where there
was 10 viewers where there was you know
like it Brandon today talked about
having eight his he showed his first
post it had to like
one comment actually no sorry no likes
in one comment and you know now I think
is is the highest average number of
comments in the highest average number
views of any post on Facebook every day
so you have the gap between where you
think you are and where you want to be
as always closer than you think
so that was one thing that I could go on
forever but I won't and I don't to chew
up your whole show here but that was
definitely a key so no one there was no
people can talk about tipping points
there was no one event ever and anytime
people got some event just like oh my
god and then this happened where you
think you've made it they were quickly
fed a piece of humble pie and realized
that it's it's a series of making it's
over and over and over that actually
makes it possible to do what you love I
think I think that is a thing and the
fact that you never know the things that
will provide value and the things that
won't I think you get better at deciding
how to spend your time but generally
speaking like that's why if you get a
choice to go or not go you should go
whatever that wherever the go is because
it's on the other side of go that stuff
happens and rarely if almost never does
stuff happen by not doing it not going
so it's sort of that that regular
application of effort that's one thing
you can control you can't control the
universe you can't control the weather
the market conditions but you can't
control you spend time with what you put
your time into what you work on and you
run around with
you can put one or thing out into the
world like advice that you got family
member or just that something you read
on a fortune cookie that is healthy but
throughout your life I mean if you had a
megaphone that you just say to the world
I would say the thing that I just said a
second ago I'm gonna capitulate and just
say to me this is a big deal that the
distance between where you are right now
and where you want to be is always
shorter than you think it is generally
speaking for most of the people watching
this there is a thing that you want to
do or be or become and right now where
you're you're sort of mired in your
day-to-day and oh my gosh how do i how
do I be that thing I don't even know
step one the reality is that step one is
it's probably like 10 percent of the way
there and whatever that first thing is
whether it's making a video your first
video like you can probably reckon you
remember your first video and not
literally in a matter of time like
because it took you a day to make that
video and you've been working for 6,000
days or whatever but metaphorically or
psychologically the first step of making
the thing that you saw yourself as a
video producer so when you actually made
your first video and press upload that's
a huge step so proportionally like
psychologically that probably was 10% of
the way towards becoming the thing that
you want to do and when you realize if I
could tell you there's 10 steps between
now and becoming a Hollywood director or
whatever your goal in life is being a
successful youtuber making money on your
videos it's always closer than you think
of that creative like for new around
here make sure that subscribe button and
give this video a big thumbs up for
chase it's a pleasure to have them on
the show if you're new around here I do
that creatively I also have another show
called creative spaces TV it's kind of
like MTV Cribs with substance and then I
also blog so make sure to check out my
channel and I will see you guys in the
next one typical way that people try to
pronounce it show mo yo homie uh you
guys making any videos on schmoly uh my
name is Evan Gregory I'm Andrew Gregory
we are two of the Gregory Brothers the
other two being our brother Michael and
my wife Sarah we run the YouTube channel
Shmuel Yoho accent on the yo primarily
known for songify this and song fi the
news YouTube series where we take stuff
that was never meant to be a song and
create a song out of it it was never
intentionally meant to be a song it
might have been like destined to be a
song and like a more cosmic sense